Moving Object Detection by Multi-View Geometric Techniques from a Single Camera Mounted Robot

Abstract : 

Two conditions to detect moving object
	One condition is:- epipolar constraint.

	Other is :- In the second constraint, we use the knowledge of the robot
	motion to estimate a bound in the position of image pixel along
	the epipolar line. This is capable of detecting moving objects
	followed by a moving camera in the same direction, a so-called
	degenerate configuration where the epipolar constraint fails.

To classify the moving pixels robustly, a Bayesian framework
is used to assign a probability that the pixel is stationary
or dynamic based on the above geometric properties and
the probabilities are updated when the pixels are tracked in
subsequent images. The same framework also accounts for the
error in estimation of camera motion.



Introduction :

Some approaches have used optical flow to detect motion,
[9], [10], [11]. These methods rely on the assumption that,
person moves differently than the background and motion
is detected by simply thresholding the difference in flow
vectors with those surrounding it. These methods however
suffer from a lack of robustness due to the typical edge
effects, where the edges of objects also possess different
flow vectors than those surrounding it leading to considerable
false positives.

Recently, [6] used stereo to compute depth of
sparse feature points and tried to estimate the background
model by a 4x4 projective transformation matrix. Still, there
is an another underlying assumption of these approaches,
[6], [7], [8].The assumption that the majority of the inliers
form the background, can be violated when the scene consists
of predominantly moving objects or when a moving object
is very close to the image.


The novelty of this paper is the use of geometric con-
straints within a recursive Bayes filter based probabilistic
framework to detect moving objects and people with two
views alone. The method uses gray-level information thereby
circumventing issues related with color based approaches.
Also the proposed method does not make restrictive assump-
tion about the environment, or the robot’s motion.




Overview :

Fundamental matrix from odometry
Feature tracking KLT tracker
Geometric constarints
Probablistic framework/Bayes filter/Recursive




Fundamental Matrix Calculation :



